Now what we are going to cover in this lesson and the upcoming lessons are those objects we just mentioned.
Now those objects are query reference objects and snapshot objects.
We'll also talk about security rules near the end about how to protect the data that we're passing into
our database.
But after we fundamentally understood both the query reference object and the snapshot objects so what
are query reference objects and snapshot objects.
Well we can only get these types of two objects whenever we make a query to fire store and a query is
a request we make to give us something from the database.
So whenever we ask for something to the forest or library from the database what we will get back from
fire store is one of these two objects.
Now of these two objects both of them can either be of a document type or a collection type what this
means is that we can either get a document reference object or a collection reference object or we can
get a document snapshot object or a collection snapshot object but that collection snapshot object is
called a query snapshot.
That's just one thing to remember by our store will also always return us these objects even if nothing
exists in that query.
So what do I mean.
Well we will see that in the example.
But let's just define these objects first.
Now we'll start with the reference objects query reference object is an object that represents the correct
place in the database that we are querying so in order for us to get a clear reference object we do
it by querying using one of these two methods.
And again we query either a document or we query either a collection and we do it by calling firestorm
dot doc and then passing it the path to that document such as user slash and then the user I.D. or we
get it at a collection path by calling firestorm collections and then the path to the collections slash
users for example a query reference object does not have the actual data though of either the collection
or the document it just represents the place in that path in our database for us to actually get the
properties or the data that is related to the firestorm.
We have to get the snapshot object and we get that using the reference object but we'll talk about the
snapshot object after we finish exploring the reference object now.
As I mentioned there are two types of reference objects that we can get back.
There are document reference objects and collection reference objects we use the document reference
object to perform credit methods which are the create retrieve update and delete related methods on
that document in our database.
Now the methods that we need to call on document wrath are dot set in order to create it dot yet in
order to retrieve it dot update in order for us to update the data and then dot delete for us to just
delete that entry entirely.
Now we can also add documents to collections using the collection ref as long as we use the method.
Add on that collection.
So as you can see here if we call collection rough dot add and then we pass in an object with the value
props of what we want to add as a new document to this collection collection Rooftop ad we'll do that
for us.
We also are able to get our Snapshot objects from these reference objects by calling the dot get method
on either the document ref or the collection ref and the document ref gives us back a documents snapshot
object whereas the collection ref gives us back a query snapshot object which I also call a collection
snapshot object.
Now we get these snapshot objects with our get method which is equivalent to the retrieved method in
the KRudd paradigm.
If you're unfamiliar with KRudd credit is the main way that we interact with our database which is through
these create retrieve update or delete methods that exist on our reference objects if this paradigm
concept seems a bit confusing as to why it is this way.
It is easy to find articles written about this extensively cos KRudd has been around for quite a long
time and it's a pretty popular paradigm of working with databases but moving on to the document snapshot
object that we get from our document reference object allows us to check if a document exists at this
query using the DOT exists property which gives us back a bullet we can also get the actual properties
on the object by calling the DOT data method which returns us adjacent object of the document.
So what we'll do is let's just take a quick refresher about what we were doing way back when we set
up our authentication and storing our authenticated users in our database because we actually saw those
objects when we did this now what we did was we use the auth library that we got from Firebase and we
said whatever the authentication state changed we want you to pass us the user off object and then we
will listen for all of the user auth objects that auth state change will give us that use our auth object
is stored.
If you remember inside of a different database than the one that we have it's in the authentication
table whenever a user signed in with email or password or our Google sign in the authentication what
store that user's information and then it was sign a user I.D. to it called the UI de and what we did
was we would pass that whole user object with the UIC into our create user profile document method and
inside of that method.
What we did was we would essentially use the user auth object to query our database for a document reference
object as we see with our firestorm Doc we would say our users collections slash and then the user I.D.
that are authentication library assigned for us.
Which was this idea using the user reference.
We would then call dot get to get the snapshot object because as you remember even if we did not have
a actual user object in the database firebase will always give us back a snapshot object because using
it we would check whether or not it exists or not.
Using the DOT exists property as we just spoke about.
Now what we did was we would say if the snapshot.
Right.
So if the snapshot object if the document exists then we don't want to do anything but if it does not
exist then we want to create a new document object inside of our user ref which is why we say user ref
dot set by saying user reports that we're saying I want you to create a new document using this object
with all these properties on it inside of our database and that's exactly what we did.
And that's how we were able to create those users.
That's how these users in our database is generated.
Now we can actually walk through this in a more comprehensive way.
Let's first console log this out as I mentioned firebase will always give us back the reference object
and the snapshot object even if nothing exists there.
So instead of using our user auth you I.D. Let's use something completely random that I just made up
just now if I save this and console dot log.
They use our ref that we get right.
We know that our authentication state updates because our application always keeps track of whether
or not our user has signed in before or not.
So even though our application refreshes we are still getting the authentication state update to us.
So that will trigger what we just console logged.
And here we see our document reference we see the I.D. is the made up I.D. that I had and we see the
path that we passed to the firestorm dot dot call right here.
That's what it's giving us back inside of our document reference object but we know this object can't
exist because if we look in our database we see that we only have these two not the made up one that
I just made with the 1 2 3 0 6 whatever now this is good for us because we don't want firestorm to air
out if we don't know if an object exists or not.
Right.
In a way it gives us way more flexibility in how we do things.
By the same time we do have to code with this in mind.
So what we would do is we would get the snapshot using that use a ref.
Right.
That we just made and then what we can do is we can now see whether or not the snapshot exists right
we can see what's on it because we know that faster will still give us a snapshot object.
So now if we look back we'll see that the second object is our documents snapshot object on here we
see the exists is false because as we know no such object exists.
We also see that the idea is the one that we just randomly generated because firebase uses the I.D.
path that you provided it.
Right.
So for us it's the path that we randomly wrote As the I.D. of the document that you're trying to get.
But now let's actually test this code that we wrote so we know that our Snapshot does not exist.
So we know that we're going to create a new object in that user ref that we got.
Right.
And let's manually set display name to something new like test user email can be random email at gmail
dot com create it out will be the creator and then we don't have any additional data.
So it's not relevant.
But now if we save we will see that our new object actually got created in our five star database.
If we check we'll see now that in our users there's that user we just made we just created this user
with those properties that I just wrote in and this is just because of how user rough dot set works.
Right.
We're setting that user object using these properties that I want but this is the main thing we can
do with both our user ref object but also our Snapshot object our Snapshot object.
Now we know that our Snapshot exists we'll also see that what we're able to now see on our Snapshot
object if we refresh will see that we actually have access to this dot data method that will return
us the data regarding our snapshot.
We actually can see it in our console log.
But if I just called data like this and save will now see an object representing the end user that we
created and that's how we get the values of our documents.
We have to call dot data on that snapshot.
Object my hopefully now you understand what the documents snapshot object and the document reference
objects are respectively used for and we'll definitely explore more of using those because it's the
key of how we're going to build and pull data from our database.
Now let's talk about collection snapshots or as they're called inside a fire store query snapshot.